Resume for Richard John NEISH

Born Kingston Jamaica 11th March, 1974

Contact Address
41A Lennox Road,
London,
N4 3JA
UK
Home +44 (0)20 7272 9281
Mobile +44 (0)77 2916 7059
Email: richardneish@email.com

Skills
Programming Languages: Java, C/C++, SQL, Perl, Visual Basic, UNIX shell 
                       script, TCL
Operating Systems: GNU/Linux (esp Red Hat), Sun Solaris, SCO OpenServer, 
                   Microsoft Windows NT/2000
Tools / Applications: Java 2, Jakarta Tomcat, Sun Forte, Jakarta 
                      Velocity, Apache HTTPD, Informix, Samba, CVS, 
                      Oracle, Postgres, Emacs, LaTex, Microsoft Visual 
                      Studio 6, Macromedia Dreamweaver 4
Other Technologies / Keywords: TCP/IP, DNS, SMTP, JDBC, NFS, SMB, NIS, 
                               LDAP, HTML, CGI, XML, XSLT
Other Skills: Familiar with PC and Sun workstation hardware, 
              Jamaican Private Pilot's Licence.

Goals
To identify and apply appropriate technology for solving real-world 
problems.  Buzzwords, hype and marketing aside, to select or develop 
systems based on the needs of the business and the technical merits 
of the solution.

Experience
September 2002 – present
UNIX Technical Support,
Cisco Systems,
Reading, UK

Monitor and administer Solaris-based network monitoring equipment for 
ISPs and large enterprises throughout Europe, the Middle East and 
Africa.  Remotely manage dozens of servers.  Tasks include configuring 
network settings, installing and upgrading software, installing 
security patches and configuring network services including syslog, 
NFS and Samba.  Support Cisco Engineers by phone, email and site 
visits as needed.  Participate in bug review process and document 
technical processes.

September 1999 - June 2002
Partner and Senior Developer,
RMP & Associates,
Kingston, Jamaica

As a director for this small consulting and systems development firm, 
worked in a wide variety of roles including systems design and 
implementation, programming, network optimisation and security and 
database and network administration. Projects completed include:
- Remotely administer internet server systems, including a Linux web 
  server serving over 200GB of traffic per month and a web-based 
  email system with 6000+users.
- Designed and developed a Java-based payroll system. The system is 
  completely data-driven, storing payroll formulae as first-class data 
  items, allowing the system to be tailored to any system of deductions 
  or taxes. The system is implemented in Java2 with an Informix 
  backend, and is currently deployed on both Windows 2000 Server and 
  RedHat Linux platforms.
- WAN Network security and optimization for a Jamaican bank comprising 
  28 branch offices and 2 data centres connected by a TCP/IP network 
  running over leased line. Collaborated with bank IT staff on system 
  documentation and security and reported on same to senior management.
- Designed and implemented a Perl-based CGI system for online 
  publishing for a large Jamaican newspaper. Migrated an existing 
  offline system to a database-backed, template-driven publishing 
  system, including mass email publishing and archive searching. Later 
  additions to this project, including the archive search interface, 
  were implemented using Java Servlets.
- Designed and developed front-end system for interfacing with 
  Informix 4GL legacy code. Interfaces include an Interactive Voice 
  Response system and a Java servlet-based web application.

September - December 2000 and January - May 2002
Lecturer,
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, 
University of the West Indies,
Kingston, Jamaica

Developed and presented a course entitled "Advanced Operating Systems". 
This course formed one component of the universities MSc Programme 
in Computer Science.

September 1997 - August 1999
UNIX Systems Administrator,
Digital Systems Processing / Image Formation and Processing groups,
University of Illinois, USA.

Maintained a laboratory and network comprised of 50+ UNIX workstations 
and servers. Systems included Solaris, SunOS and HP/UX servers and 
workstations in addition to PC and Macintosh workstations and printers, 
connected by an Ethernet running TCP/IP and AppleTalk. I am responsible 
for installing and configuring software packages and services, 
including HTTPD, NIS, NFS, TeX, the X Window System, Matlab, and 
others.

June 1998 - August 1998
Data Management Specialist,
Business Link LCP,
London, England

Transitioned a large database application from Novell Netware to 
Windows NT and upgraded from Oracle 5 to Oracle 7. Rolled out upgraded 
system to 100+ clients in three offices, with zero lost work or data. 
Converted all reports and queries to new system and set up training 
facilities for staff.

May 1995 - January 1997
Senior Programmer,
Advanced Integrated Systems,
Kingston, Jamaica

Major projects completed include a proposed National Identification 
Card system for the Government of Jamaica, a general purpose ID 
production system and a printing subsystem for the Registrar of 
Births, Deaths and Marriages,  Government of Jamaica.I developed front 
ends for Informix and SQL Server databases, in Visual Basic and using 
HTML and CGI scripts.

May-June 1995 and May-June 1996
Lecturer,
Department of Management Studies,
University of the West Indies,
Kingston, Jamaica

I developed and presented a 4 week course entitled Introduction to 
Windows Programming using Visual Basic. The course was presented as 
part of the University's C-MIS programme.

Education
September 1997 - August 1999
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
Urbana, Illinois, USA
Completed MSc in Computer Science August 1999

September 1992 - June 1995
University of the West Indies, Mona Campus,
Kingston, Jamaica
Completed BSc in Computer Science and Electronics June 1995

September 1985 - June 1992
Campion College High School
Kingston, Jamaica
Completed 9 'O' Levels July 1990, 4 'A' Levels July 1992

Professional memberships
Association of Computing Machinery (ACM) Member since 1999

Hobbies
Sailing, Hiking, Running, Ultimate Frisbee, Flying
